---
layout: post
title: Invisible Linux File Permissions with Chattr
date: 2016-01-08 19:11:20
categories: 
---
I don't remember where exactly I picked up this trick but it doesn't seem to be particularly well known so I thought I would share it here. On Linux (yes Linux specifically, not BSD, Solaris etc.) there is a command called `chattr` for changing file attributes. 

Some of the available attributes are rather useful for example `a` for append only or `s` for a file to be automatically zeroed on delete. And then there is the immutable flag `i`, which is just plain evil. 

It works something like this:

{% highlight bash %}
$ echo hello > myfile.txt
$ sudo chattr +i myfile.txt 
{% endhighlight %}

And the result:
{% highlight bash %}
$ > myfile.txt
-bash: myfile.txt: Permission denied
$ sudo touch myfile.txt
touch: cannot touch ‘myfile.txt’: Permission denied
$ ls -l myfile.txt
-rw-r--r-- 1 nemu nemu 0 Jan 15 06:20 myfile.txt
$ chmod 777 myfile.txt
chmod: changing permissions of ‘myfile.txt’: Operation not permitted
$ sudo !!
sudo chmod 777 myfile.txt
chmod: changing permissions of ‘myfile.txt’: Operation not permitted
$ wtf
-bash: wtf: command not found
{% endhighlight %}

You know that you are in trouble with `root` receives a `Permission denied` error.

{% highlight bash %}
$ sudo chattr -i myfile.txt 
$ echo haha > myfile.txt
$ cat myfile.txt
haha
{% endhighlight %}

Below is a matrix to illustrate the interaction with the traditional `chmod` permissions.

| | `chmod +w` | `chmod -w` |
| `chattr -i` | <span style="color:green;">Okay</span> | <span style="color:red;">Permission denied</span> |
| `chattr +i` | <span style="color:red;">Permission denied</span> | <span style="color:red;">Permission denied</span> |

<br>
This can be useful for hacking around applications that are `chmod` aware and too smart for their own good. Be default `dhcpcd` for example will blindly clobber everything inside of `/etc/resolv.conf` with whatever random DNS server the router tells it which is not cool at all. If you use `chmod` to make `/etc/resolv.conf` non-writable, `dhcpcd` will simply reverse the permissions. It does not know about `chattr -i` though.

It is also useful against humans who do not know their system as well as you. I have heard stories of penetration testers giving Blue Team defenders a hard time with this little trick.

